# PR 3
Alejandro Pérez Bueno
May 12, 2025

- [Updated PR2 Summary](#updated-pr2-summary)
- [Project Proposal Introduction](#project-proposal-introduction)
  - [Implementation of an Integrated Smart Waste Management System for
    the Municipality of
    Veridia](#implementation-of-an-integrated-smart-waste-management-system-for-the-municipality-of-veridia)



## Updated PR2 Summary

The Spanish Agency for Medicines and Medical Devices (AEMPS) operates as
a public body under the Ministry of Health. Its core mission is to
ensure the quality, safety, efficacy, and correct information for
pharmaceuticals for **human and veterinary use**, medical devices,
cosmetics, and personal care products within Spain. AEMPS leverages
scientific and technical knowledge to serve society’s health needs and
support advancements in public health.

A central tool utilized by AEMPS is the Online Pharmaceutical
Information Centre (CIMA). This application serves as a comprehensive,
publicly accessible database, allowing users to query detailed
information about medicines. CIMA provides crucial data points such as a
drug’s authorization status, whether it is currently marketed, its
availability through pharmacies, and any reported supply issues. It also
compiles vital documentation like package leaflets and technical fact
sheets for pharmaceutical products.

Integrated within CIMA is the Nomenclator database. This specifically
supplies healthcare information systems with fundamental prescription
data. It includes details on all authorised and marketed medicines (both
publicly financed and not) and provides historical data on medicines
that have been suspended, revoked, or withdrawn from the market since
May 2013.

In addition to its information services, AEMPS manages other significant
public health initiatives. It operates the **Spanish Medical Device
Vigilance System**, which is crucial for reporting and analysing adverse
incidents involving medical devices. This system enables the
implementation of timely and effective corrective actions to enhance
patient safety.

Furthermore, AEMPS actively promotes pharmaceutical research and
development through its **Office for Support of Innovation and Knowledge
of Medicinal Products**. This office supports the entire drug lifecycle,
from initial research phases through to practical application, and works
to enhance the collective knowledge and understanding of existing
medicines, fostering innovation within the sector.



## Project Proposal Introduction

### Implementation of an Integrated Smart Waste Management System for the Municipality of Veridia

The effective management of municipal solid waste presents an ongoing
and increasingly complex challenge for urban administrations globally.
In an era characterized by growing urban populations, heightened
environmental consciousness, and the imperative for resource
optimization, traditional waste management methodologies are often found
to be inefficient, costly, and environmentally suboptimal. The
Municipality of Veridia currently operates a waste management system
reliant on established, yet largely manual, collection schedules and
processes. While this system has served the municipality to date,
objective analysis reveals inherent limitations that impact operational
efficiency, resource allocation, and the capacity to meet escalating
sustainability targets. The present framework is characterized by fixed
collection routes and frequencies, which do not dynamically adapt to
fluctuating waste generation patterns across different urban zones. This
often results in suboptimal fleet utilization, with resources expended
on collecting near-empty bins in some areas while others experience
overflow before scheduled collection. Furthermore, the current system
provides limited granular data on waste generation, hindering strategic
planning for waste reduction initiatives and resource recovery efforts.

The impetus for the proposed “Integrated Smart Waste Management System”
project stems directly from these identified operational inefficiencies
and the strategic need to transition towards a more sustainable and
data-driven municipal service model. The current situation necessitates
a paradigm shift from reactive collection to proactive and optimized
waste management. The lack of real-time information on bin fill levels,
inefficient routing, and the considerable manual oversight required for
daily operations contribute to inflated operational costs, including
fuel consumption, vehicle maintenance, and labor. Moreover, the absence
of robust data analytics capabilities limits the municipality’s ability
to engage citizens effectively in waste reduction programs or to
accurately report on environmental performance indicators. It is
recognized that a technological intervention is required to address
these shortcomings and to equip the Municipality of Veridia with the
tools necessary for a modern, responsive, and environmentally
responsible waste management service.

The development and implementation of an Integrated Smart Waste
Management System offer a confluence of compelling opportunities for the
Municipality of Veridia. Firstly, the deployment of smart sensor
technology in waste receptacles across the municipality will provide
real-time data on fill levels. This information, transmitted to a
central management platform, will enable dynamic route optimization for
collection fleets. It is anticipated that this will lead to a
significant reduction in mileage, fuel consumption, and associated
carbon emissions, directly contributing to the municipality’s
environmental sustainability goals. Secondly, the creation of a
centralized data analytics platform will empower the administration with
actionable insights into waste generation patterns, peak times, and
geographical hotspots. Such data is invaluable for strategic planning,
including the targeted deployment of resources, the design of effective
public awareness campaigns for waste reduction, and the identification
of opportunities for enhanced recycling and material recovery. The
system is designed to facilitate a more equitable distribution of
collection services, ensuring that resources are allocated where and
when they are most needed, thereby improving service quality for
citizens.

Furthermore, the project is expected to enhance operational transparency
and accountability. Detailed reporting functionalities will be
incorporated, allowing for the continuous monitoring of key performance
indicators and the evaluation of the system’s impact. This data-driven
approach provides a solid foundation for informed decision-making and
future service enhancements. The installation of this integrated system
is also viewed as a foundational step towards broader smart city
initiatives, creating an infrastructure that can potentially be
leveraged for other municipal service improvements. The opportunity
exists not only to optimize current operations but also to foster a
culture of innovation and continuous improvement within the municipal
waste management division. The transition to a smart system is projected
to yield long-term cost savings, improve resource allocation, and
significantly elevate the environmental performance and public image of
the Municipality of Veridia. This proposal will subsequently detail the
technical specifications, implementation plan, and projected benefits of
this essential technological advancement.
